# TRON 5.0 Migration Guide

Following [Semantic Versioning conventions](https://semver.org), TRON 5.0 introduces API-breaking changes.

This guide is provided in order to ease the transition of existing applications using previous versions to the latest APIs, as well as explain the design and structure of new and updated functionality.

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Benefits of Upgrading](#benefits-of-upgrading)
- [Breaking API Changes](#breaking-api-changes)
    - [Error parsing](#error-parsing)
    - [Alamofire 5 and API removals](#alamofire-5-and-api-removals)
    - [API stubs](#api-stubs)
- [New Features](#new-features)
    - [DSL](#dsl)
    - [Interceptors](#interceptors)
    - [Complete documentation](#complete-documentation)
    - [Response serializers](#response-serializers)
- [Miscellaneous stuff](#miscellaneous-stuff)

## Requirements

- iOS 10.0+ / tvOS 10.0+ / macOS 10.12+ / watchOS 3.0+
- Xcode 10
- Swift 4.1 and higher

## Benefits of Upgrading

- **Improved error serialization**
- **New convenient DSL**
- **Compatibility with Alamofire 5**
- **Simpler network stubs, consistent with Plugin API**
- **Simpler Codable configuration**
- **New convenience parsers**
- **Support for Swift Package Manager in Xcode 11**
- **Miscellaneous improvements**

## Breaking API changes

### Error parsing

TRON releases prior to 5.0 required `ErrorModel` to conform to the same serialization protocol as `Model` on `APIRequest` level. Result of network request was presented as `Model` in successful case and `APIError<ErrorModel>` in failure case.

This presented several challenges when dealing with errors. First of all you could not use different serialization mechanisms - for example you might have needed Codable `Model` and `JSONDecodable` error, which was not possible. Second, more importantly, if you unwrapped `APIError<ErrorModel>` to `ErrorModel` level, you no longer have access to HTTP communication information such as HTTP status codes, headers, etc.

TRON 5 changes this design by introducing `ErrorSerializable` protocol, which is a flattened version of `APIError` and `ErrorModel` combined:

```swift
public protocol ErrorSerializable: Error {
    init(request: URLRequest?, response: HTTPURLResponse?, data: Data?, error: Error?)
}
```
This protocol replaces generic requirements for `ErrorModel`, and thus allows to capture request information in a way, that is more convenient to you. `APIError` now has a new purpose as well, previously it was an abstraction that captured `ErrorModel` and HTTP request information, now it only captures HTTP request information. This means that when you don't need to handle errors directly, you can just use `APIError` as a generic constraint for request:

```swift
let request : APIRequest<String,APIError> = tron.swiftyJSON.request("get")
```

If you do need to handle errors, you can subclass APIError and parse errors the way you want. Examples how this can be done with Codable and with SwiftyJSON can be found [here](https://github.com/MLSDev/TRON/blob/main/Tests/Fixtures/TronError.swift).

Those changes propogate through entire framework, so plugins obviously no longer use `APIError`, `CodableParser` and `JSONDecodableParser` now have only one generic argument - `Model`, since `ErrorModel` was dropped in favor of `ErrorSerializable` protocol, which does not have concrete implementation on any of those parsers.

`ErrorHandlingDataResponseSerializerProtocol` and `ErrorHandlingDownloadResponseSerializer` have been removed following those changes to error handling. If you've been using them, consider porting your implementation to `ErrorSerializable` implementation.

### Alamofire 5 and API removals

Alamofire 5 brings several breaking changes to TRON. Some of them impact TRON directly, and some - only if you used Alamofire API directly. For the latter case, you might read [Alamofire 5 Migration Guide](https://github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire/blob/main/Documentation/Alamofire%205.0%20Migration%20Guide.md).


#### Empty type

`Alamofire.Empty` type was introduced under `Alamofire.EmptyResponse` protocol, which directly intersects with `TRON.EmptyResponse` struct. Considering that those data structures serve identical purposes, and have special behavior built into `Alamofire`, `TRON 5` removes `EmptyResponse` struct completely.  As a replacement, TRON `Codable` and `JSONDecodable` parsers now understand both `Alamofire.Empty` and `Alamofire.EmptyResponse` types, and allow using it the same way as `EmptyResponse` was previously used:

```
let request : APIRequest<Empty,APIError> = tron.swiftyJSON.request("status")
```

#### Multipart upload

Multipart upload requests previously were built asynchronously, and were a special case that was different from `UploadRequest`. Starting with `Alamofire 5`, asynchronous operations have been moved down the line, and multipart form upload requests are now a usual `UploadRequest` with the same interface.

Following this change `performMultipart` method on `UploadAPIRequest` was removed along with its RX counterpart `rxPerformMultipart`. You can use `perform` method on `UploadAPIRequest` and `rxResult` as it's RX counterpart instead.

#### Headers

Alamofire 5 introduces `HTTPHeaders` type that serves as an addition to usual `[String:String]` API that is commonly used for HTTP headers. `TRON.BaseRequest` and all request types now use `HTTPHeaders` type for their `headers` properties.

Following their deprecation in previous version of TRON `HeaderBuildable` and `HeaderBuilder` types were removed along with `AuthorizationRequirement` enum. You can set headers on request level, or implement a  `RequestInterceptor` instance(Alamofire protocol, that subsumes `RequestAdapter` and `RequestRetrier` protocols). Reasons for those types removals is described in [#63](https://github.com/MLSDev/TRON/issues/63).

#### Session

`Alamofire.SessionManager` was renamed to `Alamofire.Session`. Following this chage all properties of TRON that worked with it, were renamed to `session`.

`TRON.defaultAlamofireManager()` method was removed in favor of using `Alamofire.Session.default` in `TRON` initializer.

#### Changes to error handling

Alamofire 5 now uses AFError as a generic Failure result type as compared to opaque Error type. Because of that, all usage of `DataResponse`, `DownloadResponse` instances has been updated with `AFError`. Also, `Plugin` API has been migrated to AFError as well.

Make sure to update `Plugin` methods, as old methods will simply stop working without compile error due to empty protocol extension implementations.

### API Stubs

`APIStub` infrastructure was scaled down dramatically. Previously it had a bunch of methods that followed structure of `APIRequest` and were resolved when request was performed. This led to a bunch of bugs and shortcomings, that prevented several methods from being called when you were using stubs.

In `TRON 5`, `APIStub` serves as mere container for HTTP response data, as well as successful or failureful result. To achieve request stubbing, stubs are now attached to `Alamofire.Request` itself using associated objects. This allows to always call the same methods for both stubbed and unstubbed requests, thus making them consistent regardless of changes in the infrastructure.

In addition to that, entire test suite for `TRON` is now itself stubbed using custom implementation of `URLProtocol` and does not require network to run tests.

## New Features

### DSL

TRON 5 provides new dot syntax for configuring requests, allowing to take advantage of type inference and reducing duplication. It's important to note, that new DSL does not replace current API but serves as an optional supplement to it, so existing API will continue working just fine.

For example, if you have a method, that returns logout request, like so:

```swift
func deleteSession() -> APIRequest<Empty, UnknownError> {
    let request : APIRequest<Empty, UnknownError> = tron.codable.request("session")
    request.method = .delete
    return request
}
```

It can be expressed with new DSL like so:

```swift
func deleteSession() -> APIRequest<Empty, UnknownError> {
    return tron.codable.request("session").delete()
}
```

New DSL includes methods for configuring parameters, HTTP method, validation, HTTP headers, parameter encoding and more. It also goes beyond just syntax sugar.

One example of that is wrapping internal parameters into a root level dictionary, which is quite common behavior for some API calls. So, let's say login request requires you to send a JSON with object, that has one key "session" and other data wrapped inside. In current API you might have written a following code to implement that:

```swift
func signIn(login: String, password: String) -> APIRequest<Session, APIError> {
    let request: APIRequest<Session, APIError> = tron.swiftyJSON.request("auth/session")
    request.parameters["session[email]"] = login
    request.parameters["session[password]"] = password
    request.method = .post
    return request
}
```

It can be rewritten with new DSL like so:

```swift
func signIn(login: String, password: String) -> APIRequest<Session, APIError> {
    return tron.swiftyJSON
    .request("auth/session").post()
    .parameters(["email": login, "password": password], rootKey: "session")
}
```

If `rootKey` is present, parameters are wrapped into additional dictionary using rootKey as a key and parameters as values.

Another example is a handling of optional parameters. Sometimes you only need to append parameters if they are non-nil. This is achieved using new `optionalParameters` method:

```swift
func searchEntities(query: String, categoryID: Int?) -> APIRequest<Entity, APIError> {
  return tron.request("search").optionalParameters(["query": query, "category_id": categoryID])
}
```

If you do need to send null values for nil values in your parameters, there is a Bool flag that allows you to do just that:
```swift
func updateUser(firstName: String, lastName: String?) -> APIRequest<User,APIError> {
  return tron.request("me/update").patch().optionalParameters(["firstName": firstName, "lastName": lastName], setNilToNull: true)
}
```

### Interceptors

Alamofire 5 introduced concept of `Request.Interceptor` as a wrapper for `Request.Adapter` and `Request.Retrier`. To use them globally, just set `interceptor` property on `Session` object you are passing to `TRON` initializer. To use per-request interceptors, just add `intercept(using:)` method call to request creation:

```swift
let request: APIRequest<Empty, APIError> = tron.swiftyJSON
    .request("status/200")
    .intercept(using: TimeoutInterceptor(timeoutInterval: 3))
```

### Complete documentation

TRON now includes complete documentation for all functionality, generated by [jazzy](https://github.com/realm/jazzy) and hosted by Github Pages: [Documentation link](https://mlsdev.github.io/TRON/index.html).

### Response serializers

New response serializers `TRONDataResponseSerializer` and `TRONDownloadResponseSerializer` allow to serialize responses using custom closure.

You can now traverse JSON before parsing when using `SwiftyJSONDecodable`:

```swift
let traverseJSON: (JSON) -> JSON = { $0["root"]["subRoot"] }
let request: APIRequest<JSONDecodableResponse,APIError> = tron
    .swiftyJSON(traversingJSON: traverseJSON)
    .request("path")
```

`TRON` how has a property `codable`, that allows to customize `Codable` parsing for all network requests:

```swift
let decoder = JSONDecoder()
decoder.keyDecodingStrategy = .convertFromSnakeCase
tron.codable = CodableSerializer(tron, modelDecoder: decoder)
```

### Miscellaneous stuff

`NetworkLoggerPlugin` now has a convenience constructor:

```swift
let plugin = NetworkLoggerPlugin(logSuccess: false, logFailures: true, logCancelledRequests: false)
```

`JSONDecodable` conformances have been added to additional arithmetic types: `Int8...Int64`, `UInt8...64`.

Multiple Swift versions of `TRON` are now allowed using CocoaPods 1.7.0 `.swift_versions` syntax. Supported versions are: `['4.0', '4.2', '5.0']`.

`URLBuildable` protocol has been replaced with three behaviors on `URLBuilder`:  `.appendingPathComponent`, `.relativeToBaseURL` and `.custom`. Those can be set in TRON initializer:

```swift
let tron = TRON(baseURL: "https://www.example.com/", buildingURL: .relativeToBaseURL)
```

Or you can change `URLBuilder.Behavior` on per-request basis, using the new DSL:
```swift
let request: APIRequest<Int,APIError> = tron.swiftyJSON
.request("status/200")
.buildURL(.relativeToBaseURL)
```
