# TRON 2.0 Migration Guide

`TRON 2.0` is a next major release, written in Swift 3. It is supported on following platforms:

* iOS 9.0
* macOS 10.11
* tvOS 9.0
* watchOS 2.0

If you are looking for Swift 2.2/Swift 2.3 compatible `TRON`, please use `TRON 1.2.x` - latest release, that is written in Swift 2.

### Alamofire 4

TRON 2.0 depends on Alamofire 4.0 release, which brought several big API changes to the table.

#### Data, Download and Upload requests

`APIRequest` and `MultipartAPIRequest` have been refactored to three distinct classes - `APIRequest`, `DownloadAPIRequest` and `UploadAPIRequest`, that directly map to Alamofire `DataRequest`, `DownloadRequest` and `UploadRequest`. As a result, `RequestType` enum was replaced by `UploadRequestType` and `DownloadRequestType` respectively.

#### Encoding

In TRON 1.0 there was a concept of encoding strategy - that determined which encoding to use based on HTTP Method. This concept is [built-in Alamofire itself](https://github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire#parameter-encoding), therefore `encodingStrategy` properties on `TRON` and `APIRequest` are replaced with simple `parameterEncoding` property that has `Alamofire.ParameterEncoding` type.

### Response serialization

`ResponseParseable` protocol was rewritten and renamed to `Parseable` protocol. It has a single method:

```swift
public protocol Parseable {
    associatedtype ModelType

    /// Parse `data`, creating `ModelType` model.
    func parse(_ data: Data) throws -> ModelType
}
```

This allows creating factory-like parsers, that support subclassed models, or use any parser that you want. `SwiftyJSONDecodable` protocol has been migrated to use `Parseable` protocol, so if you use it, there's no changes required.

`responseBuilder` property on `APIRequest` was removed, because all parsing logic can be now implemented directly using `Parseable` protocol.

### Method naming

All API was adjusted to better match Swift 3 API design guidelines. Xcode built-in Swift Migrator should do almost all heavy-lifting, however you might need to review API changes manually in several cases.
